W-17403599-AsyncAPI-to-MuleSoft-VCS-CP (#585)
mulesoft/docs-studio: modules/ROOT/pages/api-sync.adoc

= Sync Your API Projects with API Sync
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> :keywords: api, anypoint platform, sync, api sync, MuleSoft VCS

Reviewer: Is API Sync the new name for MuleSoft VCS?

Reviewer: Oh, nm. I guess not.

Author: No. API Sync is the features Studio has to connect with MuleSoft VCS or other repos.

With API Sync, you can:

> * Start designing a RAML, or OAS 2.0 and 3.0 API spec in Studio and sync it with API Sync.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Start designing a RAML, OAS 2.0, or OAS 3.0 API spec in Studio and sync it with API Sync.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

> * Pull a published RAML or OAS 2.0 and 3.0 API spec from Exchange or a private Maven repository, into your Mule application project in Studio to scaffold a new project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Pull a published RAML, OAS 2.0, or OAS 3.0 API spec from Exchange or from a private Maven repository, into your Mule application project in Studio to scaffold a new project. 
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

* Edit the API spec you imported from Exchange, and push your changes to MuleSoft VCS.

> * Use API Sync on more than one API spec to scaffold multiple flows in different Mule configuration files.

Reviewer: Flip around? Scaffold multiple flows by using....

Author: Great idea! Thanks!

* Monitor the API versions that you implement in your project and update your flows based on the latest published version.

> * Pull a RAML or OAS 2.0 and 3.0 API spec from MuleSoft VCS into Studio, edit the spec offline, and pull the updates back to MuleSoft VCS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Pull a RAML, OAS 2.0, or OAS 3.0 API spec from MuleSoft VCS into Studio, edit the spec offline, and push the updates back to MuleSoft VCS.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

> * Develop your Mule applications following API Lifecycle development practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Develop your Mule applications using API lifecycle development practices.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

> API Sync supports importing both RAML, OAS 2.0, and OAS 3.0 spec, comes bundled by default with Studio, and requires Mule 4.1.4 and later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API Sync supports importing RAML, OAS 2.0, and OAS 3.0 specs, is bundled by default with Studio, and requires Mule 4.1.4 and later.
```

Reviewer: Do you need the first bit? Isn't it obvious from the previous bullets? 

API Sync is bundled by default with Studio and requires Mule 4.1.4 or later.

Author: Importing and pulling may be obvious to someone that understands the function of a source control system.
As this is the introduction of API Sync, it may be somehow useful to mention that API Sync can import and pull specs. Thanks!

Reviewer: OK, then suggest rewording to separate the supports from the other bits. As it is, it's kind of a mishmash of thoughts.

bundled and requires
supports

Author: I'll create a WI to work on that! 
Thanks!

> API Sync can’t work properly if the RAML file exceeds 4,000 lines of text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
API Sync doesn't work properly if the RAML file exceeds 4,000 lines of text.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

== Create an API Spec in Studio

Start a new API spec project in Studio. See xref:create-api-specification-studio.adoc[] for more information.

== Import an API Spec from Exchange 

> Import an API spec from Exchange into a new Mule project or from MuleSoft VCS into an Editable API Spec Project.

Reviewer: Can this be lowercase: Editable API Spec Project

Author: Yes! Great catch! Thanks!

> = Sync Your API Projects with MuleSoft VCS

Author: ```suggestion
= Sync Your API Projects with API Sync
```

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: api, anypoint platform, sync, api sync, MuleSoft VCS

> With MuleSoft VCS, you can:

Author: ```suggestion
With API Sync, you can:
```

> * Start designing a RAML, or OAS 2.0 and 3.0 API spec in Studio and sync it with MuleSoft VCS.

Author: ```suggestion
* Start designing a RAML, or OAS 2.0 and 3.0 API spec in Studio and sync it with API Sync.
```

* Pull a published RAML or OAS 2.0 and 3.0 API spec from Exchange or a private Maven repository, into your Mule application project in Studio to scaffold a new project. 
* You can edit the API spec you imported from Exchange, and push your changes to MuleSoft VCS.

> * You can use MuleSoft VCS on more than one API spec to scaffold multiple flows in different Mule configuration files.

Author: ```suggestion
* You can use API Sync on more than one API spec to scaffold multiple flows in different Mule configuration files.
```

* Monitor the API versions that you implement in your project and update your flows based on the latest published version.
* Pull a RAML or OAS 2.0 and 3.0 API spec from MuleSoft VCS into Studio, edit the spec offline, and pull the updates back to MuleSoft VCS.
* Develop your Mule applications following API Lifecycle development practices.

> MuleSoft VCS supports importing both RAML, OAS 2.0, and OAS 3.0 spec, comes bundled by default with Studio, and requires Mule 4.1.4 and later.

Author: ```suggestion
API Sync supports importing both RAML, OAS 2.0, and OAS 3.0 spec, comes bundled by default with Studio, and requires Mule 4.1.4 and later.
```

> MuleSoft VCS can’t work properly if the RAML file exceeds 4,000 lines of text.

Author: ```suggestion
API Sync can’t work properly if the RAML file exceeds 4,000 lines of text.
```

== Create an API Spec in Studio

. Start a new API spec project in Studio.
+
See xref:create-api-specification-studio.adoc[] for more information.
. Publish it to Exchange.
+
See xref:publish-api-project-to-exchange.adoc[]

> . Import the same API spec from Exchange to your Studio project.

Reviewer 2: You should leave out teh last part of importing teh API Spec into Studio. It makes no sense as you already created the API in Studio and exported to Exchange

Author: The purpose of this doc is to explain how the API Sync feature works. 
If you think this is redundant, I can delete the last part.

+
See xref:import-api-specification-exchange.adoc[] for more information.

== Import an API Spec from Exchange 

Import an API spec from Exchange into a new Mule project or from MuleSoft VCS into an Editable API Spec Project.

See xref:import-api-specification-exchange.adoc[] for more information.

See xref:sync-update-api-spec.adoc[] for more information about keeping your Studio projects up to date with the latest version of an API spec.

See xref:sync-api-projects-design-center.adoc[] for more information.

=== Edit the Imported API Spec in Studio

You can also edit the imported API spec in your project as an API spec project.

> . Import the API spec from Exchange to your Studio project.

Reviewer 2: I think this is a bit confusing. This eems to be about importing a spec from Exchange. Why do you import it, change it, and then import it again?

Author: According to my understanding, you do this process to have two versions of the same API spec.
